Large pre-trained language models have been shown to store factual knowledge
in their parameters, and achieve state-of-the-art results when fine-tuned on downstream NLP tasks. However, their ability to access and precisely manipulate knowledge is still limited, and hence on knowledge-intensive tasks, their performance
lags behind task-specific architectures. Additionally, providing provenance for their
decisions and updating their world knowledge remain open research problems. Pretrained models with a differentiable access mechanism to explicit non-parametric
memory have so far been only investigated for extractive downstream tasks. We
explore a general-purpose fine-tuning recipe for retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) — models which combine pre-trained parametric and non-parametric memory for language generation. We introduce RAG models where the parametric
memory is a pre-trained seq2seq model and the non-parametric memory is a dense
vector index of Wikipedia, accessed with a pre-trained neural retriever. We compare two RAG formulations, one which conditions on the same retrieved passages
across the whole generated sequence, and another which can use different passages
per token. We fine-tune and evaluate our models on a wide range of knowledgeintensive NLP tasks and set the state of the art on three open domain QA tasks,
outperforming parametric seq2seq models and task-specific retrieve-and-extract
architectures. For language generation tasks, we find that RAG models generate
more specific, diverse and factual language than a state-of-the-art parametric-only
seq2seq baseline.
Pre-trained neural language models have been shown to learn a substantial amount of in-depth knowledge from data [47]. They can do so without any access to an external memory, as a parameterized
implicit knowledge base [51, 52]. While this development is exciting, such models do have downsides: They cannot easily expand or revise their memory, can’t straightforwardly provide insight into
their predictions, and may produce “hallucinations” [38]. Hybrid models that combine parametric
memory with non-parametric (i.e., retrieval-based) memories [20, 26, 48] can address some of these
issues because knowledge can be directly revised and expanded, and accessed knowledge can be
inspected and interpreted. REALM [20] and ORQA [31], two recently introduced models that
combine masked language models [8] with a differentiable retriever, have shown promising results,but have only explored open-domain extractive question answering. Here, we bring hybrid parametric
and non-parametric memory to the “workhorse of NLP,” i.e. sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models.
We endow pre-trained, parametric-memory generation models with a non-parametric memory through
a general-purpose fine-tuning approach which we refer to as retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).
We build RAG models where the parametric memory is a pre-trained seq2seq transformer, and the
non-parametric memory is a dense vector index of Wikipedia, accessed with a pre-trained neural
retriever. We combine these components in a probabilistic model trained end-to-end (Fig. 1). The
retriever (Dense Passage Retriever [26], henceforth DPR) provides latent documents conditioned on
the input, and the seq2seq model (BART [32]) then conditions on these latent documents together with
the input to generate the output. We marginalize the latent documents with a top-K approximation,
either on a per-output basis (assuming the same document is responsible for all tokens) or a per-token
basis (where different documents are responsible for different tokens). Like T5 [51] or BART, RAG
can be fine-tuned on any seq2seq task, whereby both the generator and retriever are jointly learned.
There has been extensive previous work proposing architectures to enrich systems with non-parametric
memory which are trained from scratch for specific tasks, e.g. memory networks [64, 55], stackaugmented networks [25] and memory layers [30]. In contrast, we explore a setting where both
parametric and non-parametric memory components are pre-trained and pre-loaded with extensive
knowledge. Crucially, by using pre-trained access mechanisms, the ability to access knowledge is
present without additional training.
Our results highlight the benefits of combining parametric and non-parametric memory with generation for knowledge-intensive tasks—tasks that humans could not reasonably be expected to perform
without access to an external knowledge source. Our RAG models achieve state-of-the-art results
on open Natural Questions [29], WebQuestions [3] and CuratedTrec [2] and strongly outperform
recent approaches that use specialised pre-training objectives on TriviaQA [24]. Despite these being
extractive tasks, we find that unconstrained generation outperforms previous extractive approaches.
For knowledge-intensive generation, we experiment with MS-MARCO [1] and Jeopardy question
generation, and we find that our models generate responses that are more factual, specific, and
diverse than a BART baseline. For FEVER [56] fact verification, we achieve results within 4.3% of
state-of-the-art pipeline models which use strong retrieval supervision. Finally, we demonstrate that
the non-parametric memory can be replaced to update the models’ knowledge as the world changes.
To evaluate RAG’s generation abilities in a non-QA setting, we study open-domain question generation. Rather than use questions from standard open-domain QA tasks, which typically consist
of short, simple questions, we propose the more demanding task of generating Jeopardy questions.
Jeopardy is an unusual format that consists of trying to guess an entity from a fact about that entity.
For example, “The World Cup” is the answer to the question “In 1986 Mexico scored as the first
country to host this international sports competition twice.” As Jeopardy questions are precise,
factual statements, generating Jeopardy questions conditioned on their answer entities constitutes a
challenging knowledge-intensive generation task.
We use the splits from SearchQA [10], with 100K train, 14K dev, and 27K test examples. As
this is a new task, we train a BART model for comparison. Following [67], we evaluate using the
SQuAD-tuned Q-BLEU-1 metric [42]. Q-BLEU is a variant of BLEU with a higher weight for
matching entities and has higher correlation with human judgment for question generation than
standard metrics. We also perform two human evaluations, one to assess generation factuality, and
one for specificity. We define factuality as whether a statement can be corroborated by trusted external
sources, and specificity as high mutual dependence between the input and output [33]. We follow
best practice and use pairwise comparative evaluation [34]. Evaluators are shown an answer and two
generated questions, one from BART and one from RAG. They are then asked to pick one of four
options—quuestion A is better, question B is better, both are good, or neither is good.
FEVER [56] requires classifying whether a natural language claim is supported or refuted by
Wikipedia, or whether there is not enough information to decide. The task requires retrieving
evidence from Wikipedia relating to the claim and then reasoning over this evidence to classify
whether the claim is true, false, or unverifiable from Wikipedia alone. FEVER is a retrieval problem
coupled with an challenging entailment reasoning task. It also provides an appropriate testbed for
exploring the RAG models’ ability to handle classification rather than generation. We map FEVER
class labels (supports, refutes, or not enough info) to single output tokens and directly train with
claim-class pairs. Crucially, unlike most other approaches to FEVER, we do not use supervision on
retrieved evidence. In many real-world applications, retrieval supervision signals aren’t available, and
models that do not require such supervision will be applicable to a wider range of tasks. We explore
two variants: the standard 3-way classification task (supports/refutes/not enough info) and the 2-way
(supports/refutes) task studied in Thorne and Vlachos [57]. In both cases we report label accuracy.
Table 1 shows results for RAG along with state-of-the-art models. On all four open-domain QA
tasks, RAG sets a new state of the art (only on the T5-comparable split for TQA). RAG combines
the generation flexibility of the “closed-book” (parametric only) approaches and the performance of
"open-book" retrieval-based approaches. Unlike REALM and T5+SSM, RAG enjoys strong results
without expensive, specialized “salient span masking” pre-training [20]. It is worth noting that RAG’s
retriever is initialized using DPR’s retriever, which uses retrieval supervision on Natural Questions
and TriviaQA. RAG compares favourably to the DPR QA system, which uses a BERT-based “crossencoder” to re-rank documents, along with an extractive reader. RAG demonstrates that neither a
re-ranker nor extractive reader is necessary for state-of-the-art performance.
Table 2 shows that RAG-Token performs better than RAG-Sequence on Jeopardy question generation,
with both models outperforming BART on Q-BLEU-1. 4 shows human evaluation results, over 452
pairs of generations from BART and RAG-Token. Evaluators indicated that BART was more factual
than RAG in only 7.1% of cases, while RAG was more factual in 42.7% of cases, and both RAG and
BART were factual in a further 17% of cases, clearly demonstrating the effectiveness of RAG on
the task over a state-of-the-art generation model. Evaluators also find RAG generations to be more
specific by a large margin. Table 3 shows typical generations from each model.
Jeopardy questions often contain two separate pieces of information, and RAG-Token may perform
best because it can generate responses that combine content from several documents. Figure 2 shows
an example. When generating “Sun”, the posterior is high for document 2 which mentions “The
Sun Also Rises”. Similarly, document 1 dominates the posterior when “A Farewell to Arms” is
generated. Intriguingly, after the first token of each book is generated, the document posterior flattens.
This observation suggests that the generator can complete the titles without depending on specific
documents. In other words, the model’s parametric knowledge is sufficient to complete the titles. We
find evidence for this hypothesis by feeding the BART-only baseline with the partial decoding "The
Sun. BART completes the generation "The Sun Also Rises" is a novel by this author of "The Sun
Also Rises" indicating the title "The Sun Also Rises" is stored in BART’s parameters. Similarly,
BART will complete the partial decoding "The Sun Also Rises" is a novel by this author of "A
with "The Sun Also Rises" is a novel by this author of "A Farewell to Arms". This example shows
how parametric and non-parametric memories work together—the non-parametric component helps
to guide the generation, drawing out specific knowledge stored in the parametric memory.
Single-Task Retrieval Prior work has shown that retrieval improves performance across a variety of
NLP tasks when considered in isolation. Such tasks include open-domain question answering [5, 29],
fact checking [56], fact completion [48], long-form question answering [12], Wikipedia article
generation [36], dialogue [41, 65, 9, 13], translation [17], and language modeling [19, 27]. Our
work unifies previous successes in incorporating retrieval into individual tasks, showing that a single
retrieval-based architecture is capable of achieving strong performance across several tasks.
General-Purpose Architectures for NLP Prior work on general-purpose architectures for NLP
tasks has shown great success without the use of retrieval. A single, pre-trained language model
has been shown to achieve strong performance on various classification tasks in the GLUE benchmarks [60, 61] after fine-tuning [49, 8]. GPT-2 [50] later showed that a single, left-to-right, pre-trained
language model could achieve strong performance across both discriminative and generative tasks.
For further improvement, BART [32] and T5 [51, 52] propose a single, pre-trained encoder-decoder
model that leverages bi-directional attention to achieve stronger performance on discriminative
and generative tasks. Our work aims to expand the space of possible tasks with a single, unified
architecture, by learning a retrieval module to augment pre-trained, generative language models.
Learned Retrieval There is significant work on learning to retrieve documents in information
retrieval, more recently with pre-trained, neural language models [44, 26] similar to ours. Some
work optimizes the retrieval module to aid in a specific, downstream task such as question answering,
using search [46], reinforcement learning [6, 63, 62], or a latent variable approach [31, 20] as in our
work. These successes leverage different retrieval-based architectures and optimization techniques to
achieve strong performance on a single task, while we show that a single retrieval-based architecture
can be fine-tuned for strong performance on a variety of tasks.
Memory-based Architectures Our document index can be seen as a large external memory for
neural networks to attend to, analogous to memory networks [64, 55]. Concurrent work [14] learns
to retrieve a trained embedding for each entity in the input, rather than to retrieve raw text as in our
work. Other work improves the ability of dialog models to generate factual text by attending over
fact embeddings [15, 13]. A key feature of our memory is that it is comprised of raw text rather
distributed representations, which makes the memory both (i) human-readable, lending a form of
interpretability to our model, and (ii) human-writable, enabling us to dynamically update the model’s
memory by editing the document index. This approach has also been used in knowledge-intensive
dialog, where generators have been conditioned on retrieved text directly, albeit obtained via TF-IDF
rather than end-to-end learnt retrieval [9].
Retrieve-and-Edit approaches Our method shares some similarities with retrieve-and-edit style
approaches, where a similar training input-output pair is retrieved for a given input, and then edited
to provide a final output. These approaches have proved successful in a number of domains including
Machine Translation [18, 22] and Semantic Parsing [21]. Our approach does have several differences,
including less of emphasis on lightly editing a retrieved item, but on aggregating content from several
pieces of retrieved content, as well as learning latent retrieval, and retrieving evidence documents
rather than related training pairs. This said, RAG techniques may work well in these settings, and
could represent promising future work.
In this work, we presented hybrid generation models with access to parametric and non-parametric
memory. We showed that our RAG models obtain state of the art results on open-domain QA. We
found that people prefer RAG’s generation over purely parametric BART, finding RAG more factual
and specific. We conducted an thorough investigation of the learned retrieval component, validating
its effectiveness, and we illustrated how the retrieval index can be hot-swapped to update the model
without requiring any retraining. In future work, it may be fruitful to investigate if the two components
can be jointly pre-trained from scratch, either with a denoising objective similar to BART or some
another objective. Our work opens up new research directions on how parametric and non-parametric
memories interact and how to most effectively combine them, showing promise in being applied to a
wide variety of NLP tasks.